Early disease detection plays a vital role in protection of paddy crops. In earlier days the detection of disease was done through seeing or by examining in a laboratory. The observation made visually needs experts and it might vary for each individual which leads to error and laboratory testing requires more time and might not be able to deliver the outcome within a time. To get the better of this issue, image processing-based Machine learning approach used to detect the diseases and classify the diseases. We mainly focused on rice (Oryza sativa) diseases. The images contain the leaves and stems which are affected by disease collected from the paddy fields. The dataset contains five different classes of diseases (1) Rice Blast (2) Bacterial Leaf Blight (3) Sheath Blight (4) Healthy leaves. The early detection of diseases will help farmers to increase their yield.
Existing System:
In this Existing System, Paddy crop disease is detected by using machine learning algorithms such as SVM, Random Forest. By using these algorithms, paddy crop disease cannot be predicted correctly
Proposed System:
In this system for detecting the rice blast and Bacterial leaf blight disease of paddy, we are using Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) Algorithm. It involves major two phases one is training the model and the other part is detecting the given image of the disease. The first phase deals with training the model using the image dataset. Both healthy and disease leaf image dataset are collected. Here we have collected 2000 images of Rice blast, 2000 images of Bacterial Blight and 2000 healthy paddy leaf images. The images are downloaded from the Kaggle website. These images are trained with the help of Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) Algorithm.
Advantages
1.It takes less time
2.More prediction
